Cleric
---------
Arms and eyes upraised toward the sun and a prayer
on his lips, an elf begins to glow with an inner light that
spills out to heal his battle-worn companions.
Chanting a song o f glory, a dwarf swings his axe
in wide swaths to cut through the ranks o f orc s
arrayed against him, shouting praise to the gods with
every fo e ’s fall.
Calling down a curse upon the forces o f undeath, a
human lifts her holy symbol as light pours from it to
drive back the zombies crowding in on her companions.
Clerics are intermediaries between the mortal world
and the distant planes o f the gods. As varied as the gods
they serve, clerics strive to embody the handiwork o f
their deities. No ordinary priest, a cleric is imbued with
divine magic.

Healers And Warriors
-----------------------
Divine magic, as the name suggests, is the power o f
the gods, flowing from them into the world. Clerics are
conduits for that power, manifesting it as miraculous
effects. The gods don’t grant this power to everyone who
seeks it, but only to those chosen to fulfill a high calling.
Harnessing divine magic doesn’t rely on study or
training. A cleric might learn formulaic prayers and
ancient rites, but the ability to cast cleric spells relies on
devotion and an intuitive sense o f a deity’s wishes.
Clerics combine the helpful magic o f healing and
inspiring their allies with spells that harm and hinder
foes. They can provoke awe and dread, lay curses of
plague or poison, and even call down flames from heaven
to consume their enemies. For those evildoers who will
benefit most from a mace to the head, clerics depend on
their combat training to let them wade into melee with
the power o f the gods on their side.

Divine Agents
----------------
Not every acolyte or officiant at a temple or shrine is a
cleric. Some priests are called to a simple life o f temple
service, carrying out their gods’ will through prayer and
sacrifice, not by m agic and strength o f arms. In some
cities, priesthood amounts to a political office, viewed
as a stepping stone to higher positions o f authority and
involving n o communion with a god at all. True clerics
are rare in most hierarchies.
When a cleric takes up an adventuring life, it is usually
because his or her god demands it. Pursuing the goals
o f the gods often involves braving dangers beyond the
walls o f civilization, smiting evil or seeking holy relics in
ancient tombs. Many clerics are also expected to protect
their deities’ worshipers, which can mean fighting
rampaging orc s, negotiating peace between warring
nations, or sealing a portal that w ould allow a demon
prince to enter the world.
Most adventuring clerics maintain some connection to
established temples and orders o f their faiths. A temple
might ask for a cleric’s aid, or a high priest might be in a
position to demand it.