Druid
----------
Holding high a gnarled staff wreathed with holly, an elf
summons the fury o f the storm and calls down explosive
bolts o f lightning to smite the torch-carrying orc s who
threaten her forest.
Crouching out o f sight on a high tree branch in the
form o f a leopard, a human peers out o f the jungle at the
strange construction o f a temple o f Evil Elemental Air,
keeping a close eye on the cultists’ activities.
Swinging a blade formed o f pure fire, a half-elf
charges into a mass o f skeletal soldiers, sundering
the unnatural magic that gives the foul creatures the
mocking semblance o f life.
Whether calling on the elemental forces o f nature or
emulating the creatures o f the animal world, druids are
an embodiment o f nature’s resilience, cunning, and fury.
They c laim no mastery over nature. Instead, they see
themselves as extensions o f nature’s indomitable will.

Power of Nature
------------------
Druids revere nature above all, gaining their spells and
other magical powers either from the force o f nature
itself or from a nature deity. Many druids pursue a
mystic spirituality o f transcendent union with nature
rather than devotion to a divine entity, while others
serve gods o f wild nature, animals, or elemental forces.
The ancient druidic traditions are sometimes called
the Old Faith, in contrast to the worship o f gods in
temples and shrines.
Druid spells are oriented toward nature and animals—
the power o f tooth and claw, o f sun and moon, o f fire
and storm. Druids also gain the ability to take on animal
forms, and some druids make a particular study o f this
practice, even to the point where they prefer animal
form to their natural form.

Preserve the Balance
-----------------------
For druids, nature exists in a precarious balance. The
four elements that make up a w orld—air, earth, fire,
and water—must remain in equilibrium. If one element
were to gain power over the others, the world could be
destroyed, drawn into one o f the elemental planes and
broken apart into its component elements. Thus, druids
oppose cults o f Elemental Evil and others who promote
one element to the exclusion o f others.
Druids are also concerned with the delicate ecological
balance that sustains plant and animal life, and the need
for civilized folk to live in harmony with nature, not in
opposition to it. Druids accept that which is cruel in
nature, and they hate that which is unnatural, including
aberrations (such as beholders and mind flayers)
and undead (such as zombies and vampires). Druids
sometimes lead raids against such creatures, especially
when the monsters encroach on the druids’ territory.
Druids are often found guarding sacred sites or
watching over regions o f unspoiled nature. But when a
significant danger arises, threatening nature’s balance
or the lands they protect, druids take on a more active
role in combating the threat, as adventurers.

