Paladin
----------
Clad in plate armor that gleams in the sunlight despite
the dust and grime o f long travel, a human lays down
her sword and shield and places her hands on a mortally
wounded man. Divine radiance shines from her hands,
the man’s wounds knit closed, and his eyes open wide
with amazement.
A dwarf crouches behind an outcrop, his black cloak
making him nearly invisible in the night, and watches
an orc war band celebrating its recent victory. Silently,
he stalks into their midst and w hispers an oath, and two
ores are dead before they even realize he is there.
Silver hair shining in a shaft o f light that seems to
illuminate only him, an elf laughs with exultation. His
spear flashes like his eyes as he jabs again and again
at a twisted giant, until at last his light overcomes its
hideous darkness.
Whatever their origin and their mission, paladins are
united by their oaths to stand against the forces o f evil.
Whether sworn before a god’s altar and the witness of
a priest, in a sacred glade before nature spirits and fey
beings, or in a moment o f desperation and grief with the
dead as the only witness, a paladin’s oath is a powerful
bond. It is a source o f power that turns a devout warrior
into a blessed champion.

The Cause of Righteousness
-----------------------------
A paladin swears to uphold justice and righteousness,
to stand with the good things o f the world against the
encroaching darkness, and to hunt the forces o f evil
wherever they lurk. Different paladins focus on various
aspects o f the cause o f righteousness, but all are
bound by the oaths that grant them power to do their
sacred work. Although many paladins are devoted to
gods o f good, a paladin’s power comes as much from a
commitment to justice itself as it does from a god.
Paladins train for years to learn the skills o f combat,
mastering a variety o f weapons and armor. Even so,
their martial skills are secondary to the magical power
they wield: power to heal the sick and injured, to smite
the wicked and the undead, and to protect the innocent
and those who join them in the fight for justice.

Beyond the Mundane Life
------------------------
Almost by definition, the life o f a paladin is an
adventuring life. Unless a lasting injury has taken him
or her away from adventuring for a time, every paladin
lives on the front lines o f the cosmic struggle against
evil. Fighters are rare enough among the ranks o f the
militias and armies o f the world, but even fewer people
can claim the true calling o f a paladin. When they do
receive the call, these w arriors turn from their former
occupations and take up arms to fight evil. Sometimes
their oaths lead them into the service o f the crown as
leaders o f elite groups o f knights, but even then their
loyalty is first to the cause o f righteousness, not to
crown and country.
Adventuring paladins take their w ork seriously. A
delve into an ancient ruin or dusty crypt can be a quest
driven by a higher purpose than the acquisition of
treasure. Evil lurks in dungeons and primeval forests,
and even the smallest victory against it can tilt the
cosmic balance away from oblivion.