Sorcerer
----------
Golden eyes flashing, a human
stretches out her hand and unleashes
the dragonfire that burns in her veins.
As an inferno rages around her foes,
leathery wings spread from her back and
she takes to the air.
Long hair whipped by a conjured wind,
a half-elf spreads his arms wide and throws
his head back. Lifting him momentarily off
the ground, a wave o f magic surges up in him,
through him, and out from him in a mighty blast
o f lightning.
Crouching behind a stalagmite, a halfling points a
finger at a charging troglodyte. A blast o f fire springs
from her finger to strike the creature. She ducks back
behind the rock formation with a grin, unaware that her
wild magic has turned her skin bright blue.
Sorcerers carry a magical birthright conferred
upon them by an exotic bloodline, some otherworldly
influence, or exposure to unknown cosmic forces.
One can’t study sorcery as one learns a language, any
more than one can learn to live a legendary life. No one
chooses sorcery; the power chooses  the sorcerer.

Raw Magic
------------
Magic is a part o f every sorcerer, suffusing body, mind,
and spirit with a latent power that waits to be tapped.
Some sorcerers wield magic that springs from an
ancient bloodline infused with the magic o f dragons.
Others carry a raw, uncontrolled magic within them,
a chaotic storm that manifests in unexpected ways.
The appearance of sorcerous powers is wildly
unpredictable. Some draconic bloodlines produce
exactly one sorcerer in every generation, but in other
lines of descent every individual is a sorcerer. Most
o f the time, the talents o f sorcery appear as apparent
flukes. Some sorcerers can’t name the origin o f their
power, while others trace it to strange events in their
own lives. The touch o f a demon, the blessing of a
dryad at a baby’s birth, or a taste o f the water from
a mysterious spring might spark the gift o f sorcery.
So too might the gift o f a deity o f magic, exposure
to the elemental forces o f the Inner Planes or the
maddening chaos o f Limbo, or a glimpse into the
inner w orkings o f reality.
Sorcerers have no use for the spellbooks and ancient
tomes o f magic lore that wizards rely on, nor do they
rely on a patron to grant their spells as w arlocks do.
By learning to harness and channel their own inborn
magic, they can discover new and staggering ways
to unleash that power.

Unexplained Powers
--------------------
Sorcerers are rare in the world, and it’s unusual to find
a sorcerer who is not involved in the adventuring life
in some way. People with magical power seething in
their veins soon discover that the power doesn’t like to
stay quiet. A sorcerer’s magic wants to be wielded, and
it has a tendency to spill out in unpredictable ways if
it isn’t called on.
Sorcerers often
have obscure or quixotic
motivations driving them
to adventure. Some seek a greater
understanding o f the magical force that infuses
them, or the answer to the mystery o f its origin. Others
hope to find a way to get rid o f it, or to unleash its full
potential. Whatever their goals, sorcerers are every bit
as useful to an adventuring party as w izards, making
up for a comparative lack of breadth in their magical
knowledge with enormous flexibility in using the
spells they know.