Wizard
---------
Clad in the silver robes that denote her station, an
elf closes her eyes to shut out the distractions o f the
battlefield and begins her quiet chant. Fingers weaving
in front o f her, she completes her spell and launches a
tiny bead o f fire toward the enemy ranks, where it erupts
into a conflagration that engulfs the soldiers.
Checking and rechecking his work, a human scribes
an intricate magic circle in chalk on the bare stone
floor, then sprinkles powdered iron along every line and
graceful curve. When the circle is complete, he drones a
long incantation. A hole opens in space inside the circle,
bringing a whiff o f brimstone from the otherworldly
plane beyond.
Crouching on the floor in a dungeon intersection, a
gnome tosses a handful o f small bones inscribed with
mystic symbols, muttering a few words o f power over
them. Closing his eyes to see the visions more clearly,
he nods slowly, then opens his eyes and points down the
passage to his left.
Wizards are supreme magic-users, defined and united
as a class by the spells they cast. Drawing on the subtle
weave o f magic that permeates the cosmos, wizards cast
spells o f explosive fire, arcing lightning, subtle deception,
and brute-force mind control. Their magic conjures
monsters from other planes o f existence, glimpses the
future, or turns slain foes into zombies. Their mightiest
spells change one substance into another, call meteors
down from the sky, or open portals to other worlds.

Scholars of the Arcane
-----------------------
Wild and enigmatic, varied in form and function, the
power o f magic draws students who seek to master
its mysteries. Some aspire to become like the gods,
shaping reality itself. Though the casting o f a typical
spell requires merely the utterance o f a few strange
words, fleeting gestures, and sometimes a pinch or
clump o f exotic materials, these surface components
barely hint at the expertise attained after years of
apprenticeship and countless hours o f study.
Wizards live and die by their spells. Everything else
is secondary. They learn new spells as they experiment
and grow in experience. They can also learn them from
other w izards, from ancient tomes or inscriptions,
and from ancient creatures (such as the fey) that are
steeped in magic.

The Lure of Knowledge
-----------------------
Wizards’ lives are seldom mundane. The closest a
wizard is likely to come to an ordinary life is working
as a sage or lecturer in a library or university, teaching
others the secrets o f the multiverse. Other wizards sell
their services as diviners, serve in military forces, or
pursue lives o f crime or domination.
But the lure o f knowledge and power calls even the
most unadventurous wizards out o f the safety o f their
libraries and laboratories and into crumbling ruins and
lost cities. Most w izards believe that their counterparts
in ancient civilizations knew secrets o f magic that have
been lost to the ages, and discovering those secrets
could unlock the path to a power greater than any magic
available in the present age.